README.rst, before:

.. _main_page:

PRAW: The Python Reddit Api Wrapper
===================================

.. begin_description

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw.png
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw

PRAW, an acronym for "Python Reddit API Wrapper", is a python package that
allows for simple access to reddit's API. PRAW aims to be as easy to use as
possible and is designed to follow all of `reddit's API rules
<https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API>`_. You have to give a useragent
that follows the rules, everything else is handled by PRAW so you needn't worry
about violating them.

Here's a quick peek, getting the first 5 submissions from
the 'hot' section of the 'opensource' subreddit:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> import praw
    >>> r = praw.Reddit(user_agent='my_cool_application')
    >>> submissions = r.get_subreddit('opensource').get_hot(limit=5)
    >>> [str(x) for x in submissions]

This will display something similar to the following:

.. code-block:: pycon

    ['10 :: Gun.io Debuts Group Funding for Open Source Projects\n Gun.io',
     '24 :: Support the Free Software Foundation',
     '67 :: The 10 Most Important Open Source Projects of 2011',
     '85 :: Plan 9 - A distributed OS with a unified communicatioprotocol  I/O...',
      '2 :: Open-source webOS is dead on arrival ']

.. end_description

.. begin_installation

.. _installation:

Installation
------------

PRAW works with python 2.6, 2.7, 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3. The recommended way to
install is via `pip <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip>`_

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install praw

Alternatively you can do it via
`easy_install <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools>`_

.. code-block:: bash

    $ easy_install praw

.. end_installation

.. begin_support

Support
-------

The official place to ask questions about PRAW, reddit and other API wrappers
is `r/redditdev <http://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev>`_. If the question is more
about Python and less about PRAW, such as "what are generators", then you're
likely to get more, faster and more in-depth answers in `r/learnpython
<http://www.reddit.com/r/learnpython>`_.

If you've uncovered a bug or have a feature request, then `make an issue on our
project page at github <https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/issues>`_.

.. end_support

Documentation
-------------

PRAW's documentation, which includes tutorials, information on configuring PRAW
and other good stuff can be found at `readthedocs
<https://praw.readthedocs.org>`_.

.. begin_license

License
-------

All of the code contained here is licensed by
`the GNU GPLv3 <https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/blob/master/COPYING>`_.

.. end_license

Commit message:

Add links on how to install pip
The most common problem, based on submissions to Reddit,
encounted by users is how to install PRAW. They don't
have pip installed and encounter difficulties installing
it. By adding links to tutorials detailing how to install
pip, the number of people having problems with installing
PRAW should decrease.

README.rst, after:

.. _main_page:

PRAW: The Python Reddit Api Wrapper
===================================

.. begin_description

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw.png
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw

PRAW, an acronym for "Python Reddit API Wrapper", is a python package that
allows for simple access to reddit's API. PRAW aims to be as easy to use as
possible and is designed to follow all of `reddit's API rules
<https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API>`_. You have to give a useragent
that follows the rules, everything else is handled by PRAW so you needn't worry
about violating them.

Here's a quick peek, getting the first 5 submissions from
the 'hot' section of the 'opensource' subreddit:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> import praw
    >>> r = praw.Reddit(user_agent='my_cool_application')
    >>> submissions = r.get_subreddit('opensource').get_hot(limit=5)
    >>> [str(x) for x in submissions]

This will display something similar to the following:

.. code-block:: pycon

    ['10 :: Gun.io Debuts Group Funding for Open Source Projects\n Gun.io',
     '24 :: Support the Free Software Foundation',
     '67 :: The 10 Most Important Open Source Projects of 2011',
     '85 :: Plan 9 - A distributed OS with a unified communicatioprotocol  I/O...',
      '2 :: Open-source webOS is dead on arrival ']

.. end_description

.. begin_installation

.. _installation:

Installation
------------

PRAW works with python 2.6, 2.7, 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3. The recommended way to
install is via `pip <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip>`_

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install praw

If you don't have ``pip`` installed, then the Hitchhiker's Guide to Python has
a section for setting it up on `Windows
<http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/win/>`_,
`Mac <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/osx/>`_ and
`Linux <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/install/linux/>`_.
There is also a `Stack overflow question on installing pip on Windows
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4750806/how-to-install-pip-on-windows>`_
that might prove helpful.

Alternatively you can do it via
`easy_install <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools>`_

.. code-block:: bash

    $ easy_install praw

.. end_installation

.. begin_support

Support
-------

The official place to ask questions about PRAW, reddit and other API wrappers
is `r/redditdev <http://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev>`_. If the question is more
about Python and less about PRAW, such as "what are generators", then you're
likely to get more, faster and more in-depth answers in `r/learnpython
<http://www.reddit.com/r/learnpython>`_.

If you've uncovered a bug or have a feature request, then `make an issue on our
project page at github <https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/issues>`_.

.. end_support

Documentation
-------------

PRAW's documentation, which includes tutorials, information on configuring PRAW
and other good stuff can be found at `readthedocs
<https://praw.readthedocs.org>`_.

.. begin_license

License
-------

All of the code contained here is licensed by
`the GNU GPLv3 <https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/blob/master/COPYING>`_.

.. end_license
