docs/getting_started/configuration/options.rst, before:

.. _configuration_options:

Configuration Options
=====================

PRAW's configuration options are broken down into the following categories:

* :ref:`basic_options`
* :ref:`oauth_options`
* :ref:`site_options`
* :ref:`custom_options`

All of these options can be provided in any of the ways mentioned in
:ref:`configuration`.

.. _basic_options:

Basic Configuration Options
---------------------------

:check_for_updates: When ``true``, check for new versions of PRAW. When a
                    newer version of PRAW is available a message is reported
                    via standard out (default: ``true``).

:user_agent: (Required) A unique description of your application. The following
             format is recommended according to `Reddit's API Rules
             <https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API#rules>`_:
             ``<platform>:<app ID>:<version string> (by /u/<reddit
             username>)``.

.. _oauth_options:

OAuth Configuration Options
---------------------------

:client_id: (Required) The OAuth client id associated with your registered
            Reddit application. See :ref:`oauth` for instructions on
            registering a Reddit application.

:client_secret: The OAuth client secret associated with your registered Reddit
                application. This option is required for all application types,
                however, the value must be set to ``None`` for **installed**
                applications.

:refresh_token: For either **web** applications, or **installed** applications
                using the code flow, you can directly provide a previously
                obtained refresh token. Using a **web** application in
                conjunction with this option is useful, for example, if you
                prefer to not have your username and password available to your
                program, as required for a **script** application. See:
                :ref:`refresh_token` and :ref:`using_refresh_token`

:redirect_uri: The redirect URI associated with your registered Reddit
               application. This field is unused for **script** applications
               and is only needed for both **web** applications, and
               **installed** applications when the :meth:`.url` method is used.

:password: The password of the Reddit account associated with your registered
           Reddit **script** application. This field is required for **script**
           applications, and PRAW assumes it is working with a **script**
           application by its presence.

:username: The username of the Reddit account associated with your registered
           Reddit **script** application. This field is required for **script**
           applications, and PRAW assumes it is working with a **script**
           application by its presence.

.. _site_options:

Reddit Site Configuration Options
---------------------------------

PRAW can be configured to work with instances of Reddit which are not hosted at
`reddit.com <https://www.reddit.com>`_. The following options may need to be
updated in order to successfully access a third-party Reddit site:

:comment_kind: The type prefix for comments on the Reddit instance (default:
               ``t1_``).

:message_kind: The type prefix for messages on the Reddit instance (default:
               ``t4_``).

:oauth_url: The URL used to access the Reddit instance's API (default:
            https://oauth.reddit.com).

:reddit_url: The URL used to access the Reddit instance. PRAW assumes the
             endpoints for establishing OAuth authorization are accessible
             under this URL (default: https://www.reddit.com).

:redditor_kind: The type prefix for redditors on the Reddit instance (default:
                ``t2_``).

:short_url: The URL used to generate short links on the Reddit instance
            (default: https://redd.it).

:submission_kind: The type prefix for submissions on the Reddit instance
                  (default: ``t3_``).

:subreddit_kind: The type prefix for subreddits on the Reddit instance
                 (default: ``t5_``).

.. _custom_options:

Custom Configuration Options
----------------------------

Your application can utilize PRAW's configuration system in order to provide
its own custom settings.

For instance you might want to add an ``app_debugging: true`` option to your
application's ``praw.ini`` file. To retrieve the value of this custom option
from an instance of :class:`.Reddit` you can execute:

.. code-block:: python

   reddit.config.custom['app_debugging']

.. note:: Custom PRAW configuration environment variables are not
          supported. You can directly access environment variables via
          ``os.getenv``.

Commit message:

re-add support for https_proxy as a praw.ini entry

docs/getting_started/configuration/options.rst, after:

.. _configuration_options:

Configuration Options
=====================

PRAW's configuration options are broken down into the following categories:

* :ref:`basic_options`
* :ref:`oauth_options`
* :ref:`site_options`
* :ref:`custom_options`

All of these options can be provided in any of the ways mentioned in
:ref:`configuration`.

.. _basic_options:

Basic Configuration Options
---------------------------

:check_for_updates: When ``true``, check for new versions of PRAW. When a
                    newer version of PRAW is available a message is reported
                    via standard out (default: ``true``).

:user_agent: (Required) A unique description of your application. The following
             format is recommended according to `Reddit's API Rules
             <https://github.com/reddit/reddit/wiki/API#rules>`_:
             ``<platform>:<app ID>:<version string> (by /u/<reddit
             username>)``.

:https_proxy: An HTTPS proxy for all requests made by PRAW. See :ref:`https_proxy` for
              more details.

.. _oauth_options:

OAuth Configuration Options
---------------------------

:client_id: (Required) The OAuth client id associated with your registered
            Reddit application. See :ref:`oauth` for instructions on
            registering a Reddit application.

:client_secret: The OAuth client secret associated with your registered Reddit
                application. This option is required for all application types,
                however, the value must be set to ``None`` for **installed**
                applications.

:refresh_token: For either **web** applications, or **installed** applications
                using the code flow, you can directly provide a previously
                obtained refresh token. Using a **web** application in
                conjunction with this option is useful, for example, if you
                prefer to not have your username and password available to your
                program, as required for a **script** application. See:
                :ref:`refresh_token` and :ref:`using_refresh_token`

:redirect_uri: The redirect URI associated with your registered Reddit
               application. This field is unused for **script** applications
               and is only needed for both **web** applications, and
               **installed** applications when the :meth:`.url` method is used.

:password: The password of the Reddit account associated with your registered
           Reddit **script** application. This field is required for **script**
           applications, and PRAW assumes it is working with a **script**
           application by its presence.

:username: The username of the Reddit account associated with your registered
           Reddit **script** application. This field is required for **script**
           applications, and PRAW assumes it is working with a **script**
           application by its presence.

.. _site_options:

Reddit Site Configuration Options
---------------------------------

PRAW can be configured to work with instances of Reddit which are not hosted at
`reddit.com <https://www.reddit.com>`_. The following options may need to be
updated in order to successfully access a third-party Reddit site:

:comment_kind: The type prefix for comments on the Reddit instance (default:
               ``t1_``).

:message_kind: The type prefix for messages on the Reddit instance (default:
               ``t4_``).

:oauth_url: The URL used to access the Reddit instance's API (default:
            https://oauth.reddit.com).

:reddit_url: The URL used to access the Reddit instance. PRAW assumes the
             endpoints for establishing OAuth authorization are accessible
             under this URL (default: https://www.reddit.com).

:redditor_kind: The type prefix for redditors on the Reddit instance (default:
                ``t2_``).

:short_url: The URL used to generate short links on the Reddit instance
            (default: https://redd.it).

:submission_kind: The type prefix for submissions on the Reddit instance
                  (default: ``t3_``).

:subreddit_kind: The type prefix for subreddits on the Reddit instance
                 (default: ``t5_``).

.. _custom_options:

Custom Configuration Options
----------------------------

Your application can utilize PRAW's configuration system in order to provide
its own custom settings.

For instance you might want to add an ``app_debugging: true`` option to your
application's ``praw.ini`` file. To retrieve the value of this custom option
from an instance of :class:`.Reddit` you can execute:

.. code-block:: python

   reddit.config.custom['app_debugging']

.. note:: Custom PRAW configuration environment variables are not
          supported. You can directly access environment variables via
          ``os.getenv``.
