docs/package_info/contributing.rst, before:

Contributing to PRAW
====================

PRAW gladly welcomes new contributions. As with most larger projects, we have
an established consistent way of doing things. A consistent style increases
readability, decreases bug-potential and makes it faster to understand how
everything works together.

PRAW follows :PEP:`8` and :PEP:`257`. The ``pre_push.py`` script can be used to
test for compliance with these PEPs in addition to providing a few other
checks. The following are PRAW-specific guidelines in addition to those PEP's.

Code
----

* Within a single file classes are sorted alphabetically where inheritance
  permits.
* Within a class, methods are sorted alphabetically within their respective
  groups with the following as the grouping order:

  * Static methods
  * Class methods
  * Properties
  * Instance Methods

* Use descriptive names for the catch-all keyword argument. E.g.,
  ``**other_options`` rather than ``**kwargs``.

Testing
-------

Contributions to PRAW requires 100% test coverage as reported by `Coveralls
<https://coveralls.io/github/praw-dev/praw>`_. If you know how to add a
feature, but aren't sure how to write the necessary tests, please open a PR
anyway so we can work with you to write the necessary tests.

Running the Test Suite
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Travis CI <https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw>`_ automatically runs all
updates to known branches and pull requests. However, it's useful to be able to
run the tests locally. The simplest way is via:

.. code:: bash

   python setup.py test

Without any configuration or modification, all the tests should pass.

Adding and Updating Integration Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PRAW's integration tests utilize `Betamax
<http://betamax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to record an interaction with
Reddit. The recorded interaction is then replayed for subsequent test runs.

To safely record a cassette without leaking your account credentials, PRAW
utilizes a number of environment variables which are replaced with placeholders
in the cassettes. The environment variables are (listed in bash export format):

.. code:: bash

   export prawtest_client_id=myclientid
   export prawtest_client_secret=myclientsecret
   export prawtest_password=mypassword
   export prawtest_test_subreddit=reddit_api_test
   export prawtest_username=myusername
   export prawtest_user_agent=praw_pytest

By setting these environment variables prior to running ``python setup.py
test``, when adding or updating cassettes, instances of ``mypassword`` we be
replaced by the placeholder text ``<PASSWORD>`` and similar for the other
environment variables.

When adding or updating a cassette, you will likely want to force requests to
occur again rather than using an existing cassette. The simplest way to rebuild
a cassette is to first delete it, and then rerun the test suite.

Please always verify that only the requests you expect to be made are contained
within your cassette.

Documentation
-------------

* All publicly available functions, classes and modules should have a
  docstring.
* Use correct terminology. A subreddit's fullname is something like
  ``t5_xyfc7``. The correct term for a subreddit's "name" like `python
  <https://www.reddit.com/r/python>`_ is its display name.

Files to Update
---------------

AUTHORS.rst
~~~~~~~~~~~

For your first contribution, please add yourself to the end of the respective
list in the ``AUTHORS.rst`` file.

CHANGES.rst
~~~~~~~~~~~

For feature additions, bugfixes, or code removal please add an appropriate
entry to ``CHANGES.rst``. If the ``Unreleased`` section does not exist at the
top of ``CHANGES.rst`` please add it. See `commit
280525c16ba28cdd69cdbb272a0e2764b1c7e6a0
<https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/commit/280525c16ba28cdd69cdbb272a0e2764b1c7e6a0>`_
for an example.

See Also
--------

Please also read through:
https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit message:

Add the ability to use a refresh token instead of username/password

docs/package_info/contributing.rst, after:

Contributing to PRAW
====================

PRAW gladly welcomes new contributions. As with most larger projects, we have
an established consistent way of doing things. A consistent style increases
readability, decreases bug-potential and makes it faster to understand how
everything works together.

PRAW follows :PEP:`8` and :PEP:`257`. The ``pre_push.py`` script can be used to
test for compliance with these PEPs in addition to providing a few other
checks. The following are PRAW-specific guidelines in addition to those PEP's.

Code
----

* Within a single file classes are sorted alphabetically where inheritance
  permits.
* Within a class, methods are sorted alphabetically within their respective
  groups with the following as the grouping order:

  * Static methods
  * Class methods
  * Properties
  * Instance Methods

* Use descriptive names for the catch-all keyword argument. E.g.,
  ``**other_options`` rather than ``**kwargs``.

Testing
-------

Contributions to PRAW requires 100% test coverage as reported by `Coveralls
<https://coveralls.io/github/praw-dev/praw>`_. If you know how to add a
feature, but aren't sure how to write the necessary tests, please open a PR
anyway so we can work with you to write the necessary tests.

Running the Test Suite
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Travis CI <https://travis-ci.org/praw-dev/praw>`_ automatically runs all
updates to known branches and pull requests. However, it's useful to be able to
run the tests locally. The simplest way is via:

.. code:: bash

   python setup.py test

Without any configuration or modification, all the tests should pass.

Adding and Updating Integration Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

PRAW's integration tests utilize `Betamax
<http://betamax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to record an interaction with
Reddit. The recorded interaction is then replayed for subsequent test runs.

To safely record a cassette without leaking your account credentials, PRAW
utilizes a number of environment variables which are replaced with placeholders
in the cassettes. The environment variables are (listed in bash export format):

.. code:: bash

   export prawtest_client_id=myclientid
   export prawtest_client_secret=myclientsecret
   export prawtest_password=mypassword
   export prawtest_test_subreddit=reddit_api_test
   export prawtest_username=myusername
   export prawtest_user_agent=praw_pytest

By setting these environment variables prior to running ``python setup.py
test``, when adding or updating cassettes, instances of ``mypassword`` will be
replaced by the placeholder text ``<PASSWORD>`` and similar for the other
environment variables.

To use tokens instead of username/password set ``prawtest_refresh_token``
instead of ``prawtest_password`` and ``prawtest_username``.

When adding or updating a cassette, you will likely want to force requests to
occur again rather than using an existing cassette. The simplest way to rebuild
a cassette is to first delete it, and then rerun the test suite.

Please always verify that only the requests you expect to be made are contained
within your cassette.

Documentation
-------------

* All publicly available functions, classes and modules should have a
  docstring.
* Use correct terminology. A subreddit's fullname is something like
  ``t5_xyfc7``. The correct term for a subreddit's "name" like `python
  <https://www.reddit.com/r/python>`_ is its display name.

Files to Update
---------------

AUTHORS.rst
~~~~~~~~~~~

For your first contribution, please add yourself to the end of the respective
list in the ``AUTHORS.rst`` file.

CHANGES.rst
~~~~~~~~~~~

For feature additions, bugfixes, or code removal please add an appropriate
entry to ``CHANGES.rst``. If the ``Unreleased`` section does not exist at the
top of ``CHANGES.rst`` please add it. See `commit
280525c16ba28cdd69cdbb272a0e2764b1c7e6a0
<https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/commit/280525c16ba28cdd69cdbb272a0e2764b1c7e6a0>`_
for an example.

See Also
--------

Please also read through:
https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
