docs/getting_started/multiple_instances.rst, before:

Running Multiple Instances of PRAW
==================================

PRAW, as of version 4, performs rate limiting dynamically based on the HTTP
response headers from Reddit. As a result you can safely run a handful of PRAW
instances without any additional configuration.

.. note:: Running more than a dozen or so instances of PRAW concurrently
          may occasionally result in exceeding Reddit's rate limits as each
          instance can only guess how many other instances are running.

If you are authorized on other users' behalf, each authorization should have
its own rate limit, even when running from a single IP address.

Multiple Programs
-----------------

The recommended way to run multiple instances of PRAW is to simply write
separate independent Python programs. With this approach one program can
monitor a comment stream and reply as needed, and another program can monitor a
submission stream, for example.

If these programs need to share data consider using a third-party system such
as a database or queuing system.

Multiple Threads
----------------

.. warning:: PRAW is not thread safe.

In a nutshell, instances of :class:`.Reddit` are not thread-safe for a number
of reasons in its own code and each instance depends on an instance of
``requests.Session``, which is not thread-safe [`ref
<https://github.com/kennethreitz/requests/issues/2766>`_].

In theory having a unique :class:`.Reddit` instance for each thread should
work. However, until someone perpetually volunteers to be PRAW's thread safety
instructor, little to no support will go toward any PRAW issues that could be
affected by the use of multiple threads. Consider using multiple processes
instead.

Please see `this discussion
<https://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev/comments/5uwxke/praw4_is_praw4_thread_safe/>`_
for more information.

Commit message:

Add documentation change to not use multiprocessing

docs/getting_started/multiple_instances.rst, after:

Running Multiple Instances of PRAW
==================================

PRAW, as of version 4, performs rate limiting dynamically based on the HTTP
response headers from Reddit. As a result you can safely run a handful of PRAW
instances without any additional configuration.

.. note:: Running more than a dozen or so instances of PRAW concurrently
          may occasionally result in exceeding Reddit's rate limits as each
          instance can only guess how many other instances are running.

If you are authorized on other users' behalf, each authorization should have
its own rate limit, even when running from a single IP address.

Multiple Programs
-----------------

The recommended way to run multiple instances of PRAW is to simply write
separate independent Python programs. With this approach one program can
monitor a comment stream and reply as needed, and another program can monitor a
submission stream, for example.

If these programs need to share data consider using a third-party system such
as a database or queuing system.

Multiple Threads
----------------

.. warning:: PRAW is not thread safe.

In a nutshell, instances of :class:`.Reddit` are not thread-safe for a number
of reasons in its own code and each instance depends on an instance of
``requests.Session``, which is not thread-safe [`ref
<https://github.com/kennethreitz/requests/issues/2766>`_].

In theory, having a unique :class:`.Reddit` instance for each thread, and
making sure that the instances are used in their respective threads only, will
work. :class:`multiprocessing.Process` has been confirmed to work with PRAW, so
that is a viable choice as well. However, there are various errors with
:class:`multiprocessing.pool.Pool`, and is not supported by PRAW. Please use
``multiprocessing.pool.ThreadPool`` as an alternative to a process
pool.

Please see `this discussion
<https://www.reddit.com/r/redditdev/comments/5uwxke/praw4_is_praw4_thread_safe/>`_
and `this GitHub issue <https://github.com/praw-dev/praw/issues/1336>`_ for
more information.
